In this video I'll explain certain attributes of the VSE fair standards which specifically will talk
about how Nick teaming is performed and how we can configure our VM next our physical adapters to tolerate
failures.
So our VM necks are actually the physical adapters of the ESX host itself and each VM neck can only
be assigned to a single virtual switch our virtual switches can't share VM next so in this slide we
see a virtual switch with three physical adapters or VM next.
And our network is in a healthy state.
So all three of my adapters are connected and have a nice green link light.
At this moment
traffic for this virtual machine is currently flowing through the first physical adapter.
And let's say that something happens like for example let's say we have a new intern and we send him
into the data center we say go ahead and clean up the cables.
And he goes in with his scissors and he starts cutting cables and he just so happens to cut the wrong
cable
well.
Now in this situation our nice green link light on that V.M. neck isn't green anymore.
Now that connection has been physically broken and this is something that's very easy for the ESX I
host to detect and it'll simply redirect that traffic to another poor that still functional.
Now let's talk about a more complicated failure.
And let's assume that that cable that just got cut we fixed it right.
So now all of my network adapters are connected.
And again we have a nice green link light on all of those physical V.M. next.
And in this case our virtual machine traffic is flowing through this third adapter.
And again we go ahead and we send an intern into the data center and we say OK careful this time but
go ahead and keep on cleaning up those cables.
And this time he cuts a cable that interconnects are two physical switches.
Now this is a little bit different because in this scenario the link state of the Wii Emenike doesn't
change that nice green link light is going to remain green.
But if we look at our diagram here traffic from this virtual machine is now flowing into a physical
switch that's essentially isolated or it doesn't have any connectivity to the other physical switch
and therefore it doesn't have any connectivity to the Internet.
So at this moment Adapter 3 is flowing into a dead end.
This is where beacon probing can be helpful beacon probes our little packets that my VM NICS send out
to each other to just validate that they're still operating while.
So here we see the two V.M. next at the top of our screen are able to pass these beacon probes and successfully
communicate with each other.
However our third adapter is flowing into a dead end.
So although those two adapters on the top can communicate the adapter on the bottom is sending these
beacon probes into a physical switch that the other V.M. necks can't see right now due to this upstream
network failure.
So when the host realizes that it's not seeing those beacon probes from the third adapter it'll actually
remove that third adapter from service and the virtual machine traffic will be moved to another VM NEC.
Now let's talk about some of our Nick teaming options.
What we're trying to accomplish here is we have multiple VM next or multiple physical adapters that
are connected to a virtual switch and we want to ensure that our virtual machine traffic is able to
utilize all of these physical adapters.
So we're going to have to configure some sort of nic teaming method to allow those adapters to load
balance that traffic.
And the first option is a method called nicknaming by originating virtual port ID now how this works
is each virtual machine will be connected to a virtual port on our virtual switch.
And based on the virtual port ID that the VM connects to all of its traffic will flow out one specific
VM Nic.
And our second VM maybe connects to a different virtual port ID and therefore its traffic will flow
a different VM Nic and same thing with our third virtual machine.
Now in this scenario each VM is essentially tethered to a specific physical adapter and all of that
virtual machines traffic will flow through that one physical adapter.
And this is how Nic teaming by originating port ID spreads that workload out across all of these physical
next.
Now in this scenario it's important to understand that what we want to do is configure the physical
switch without port channel without LCP.
We don't want any of that kind of nic teaming happening at the physical switch side and the physical
switch has to see these for physical connections as completely independent.
And that's the same situation when we go to source Mac hash.
So with source Mac hash.
It's actually very similar to the method that we just looked at.
Maybe virtual machine one has a unique MAC address called the Mac one.
And based on that unique MAC address that VM is going to be associated with a specific VM neck.
Same thing with VM too.
And VM 3 based on their Mac addresses they will be tethered to one specific physical adapter and we'll
use that for all traffic that needs to leave the ESX host.
Again we don't want to configure LA C.P. either Channel port channel.
We don't want to configure any of that stuff on the actual physical switch.
In this case
now the final Nic teaming method that's supported by the standard virtual switch is one called IP hash.
Then here is how IP hash works.
Here you can see we have a virtual machine with IP address one.
When that virtual machine goes to send some traffic to a particular destination with a unique IP address
that traffic can flow over a physical adapter and the physical adapter is selected based not only on
the source IP but on the destination IP as well.
So now if this same virtual machine happens to be sending traffic to some other destination with a different
destination IP that traffic can actually flow out of different physical adapter.
And this is different than the prior to Nic teaming methods that we saw because now my virtual machine
can actually utilize multiple V.M. next.
So in this scenario it's important that the physical switch is appropriately configured.
We want to set up port channel or LCP on the physical switch to bond these physical adapters together.
Another feature that's supported on the VSE for standard switches something called Traffic shaping what
traffic shaping does is it applies settings such as peak bandwidth average bandwidth and burst size
to support group.
So for example let's say that we have a group of virtual machines connected to a port group and voice
for a standard switch.
And sometimes we test new applications on these victims or do something else that's resource intensive.
And as a result these V.M. tend to dominate the bandwidth of that virtual switch and other victims on
other groups sometimes can't get the bandwidth they need.
Well what we can do is we can apply traffic shaping to a port group to essentially say on this particular
port group each VM will have a peak bandwidth of 100 megabits per second each VM on this port group
will have an average bandwidth of 50 make bits per second.
And over time that's what the virtual machines must average out to at a maximum 50 megabits per second.
So because this particular virtual machine is connected to a group that has this traffic shaping policy
assigned then this policy will be enforced on this particular VM.
So under normal circumstances this VM should be averaging 50 megabits per second or less bandwidth usage.
However let's say there's some large file that we need to upload well for a short period.
This VM can actually utilize 100 megabits per second or its peak bandwidth rate until it completely
uses up what we call burst size.
Right so for this we maybe will say our burst size is 100 megabytes.
And again that's defined at a port group level not an individual virtual machine level.
So let's say at the port group level our traffic shaping policy specifies a 100 megabyte burst size
this VM will be able to transmit at one hundred megabits per second until it uses up that 100 megabyte
burst size maximum.
And then the virtual machine will be forced back down to the average band with a 50 make up its per
second and it will not be able to exceed that until it builds that burst size back up.
Now how does it build the burst size back up by staying below that 50 megabits per second average for
enough time to essentially save up 100 megabytes worth of burst size again.
And so in that way traffic shaping can really help us.
To ensure that one particular port group doesn't completely overwhelm the physical adapters of an ESX
host and there may be many port groups with different types of traffic connected to this via first standard
switch and traffic shaping just gives us that ability to place some limits on how much bandwidth each
VM within a port group can actually consume.
We can also configure some security settings on of these fair standard switch.
These can be configured at either the virtual switch or the port group level.
Now if we can figure these settings at the virtual switch level those are kind of like our global settings.
So maybe we Whino enable forged transmits on a virtual switch if we do so at the virtual switch level.
What this means is that that setting will apply to all porc groups on that virtual switch.
Now if we go to an individual port group and modify that setting the settings that are created at the
port group level will override those global virtual switch ride configurations.
So one of the settings that we can modify is called 4G transmits.
Let's say you have a virtual machine and for some reason you need to modify the MAC address of that
virtual machine.
Maybe it has been converted from a physical machine to a virtual machine and you have some software
that is licensed based on MAC address.
So we need to keep the same MAC address that we had and the physical environment that's a good use case
for Macs spoofing and so in that case when that virtual machine generates traffic it's going to be using
the Mac address that we've specified in the guest operating system.
Now the virtual switch isn't going to like that.
And the virtual switch expects traffic to come on that poor from the MAC address of the virtual neck
of that VM.
So if it sees traffic coming in on some other MAC address that's called the 4G transmit and we can choose
to either accept or reject that traffic.
By default the virtual switch is configured to accept it.
Right.
And by setting this to accept we're going to allow Max spoofing for outbound traffic another security
setting is mac address changes and MAC address changes are basically the exact same setting for inbound
traffic.
So now let's say some traffic is coming towards a virtual machine and the destination MAC is some MAC
address that we've configured in the guest operating system that is inconsistent with the actual Mac
of the virtual NEC MAC address changes need to be set to accept to allow this traffic through and by
default and a virtual switch MAC address changes and for transients are both set to accept.
Now if you don't need this Mac spoofing capability I recommend you go into those virtual switches and
change those settings to reject because that will be more secure.
Finally the third security setting is something called promiscuous mode and promiscuous mode allows
sniffing of all of the traffic on a virtual will switch.
This is not a secure option to leave enabled all the time.
Maybe you need to install sniffer software on a virtual machine and monitor all the traffic on a virtual
switch.
For some reason that's a good reason to enable promiscuous mode but you're essentially opening up your
network and allowing it to be sniffed.
So of course promiscuous mode isn't something that we want on all the time because it presents a pretty
serious security risk.
So the recommendation is turn promiscuous mode on when you need it and when you're done turn it back
off.
These fair sex supports multiple TCAP IP stacks.
So what is a TZP IP stack.
Well it provides DNS and default gateway.
So for example the default gateway is used when traffic is bound for some other network.
Let's say you go into Windows on your machine and you type in w w w dot trainer tests dot com well that
traffic is bound for some address on the Internet and so therefore that traffic needs to hit something
in your network that's capable of performing routing to that other network that's your default gateway
and you may have different machines in your network that need to use different networks for different
things.
And in that case you might need multiple default gateways.
That's part of the TCAP IP stack so built right into your ESX I host is the default TZP IP stack and
that's used for management traffic and all the types of traffic by default.
But if you want to you can utilize a separate TCAP IP stack for Wii motion traffic.
And this is useful if you need to send motion traffic to some other network.
Let's say for example you plan to do a lot of long distance the motions you might have another network
that you want to send that via motion traffic over.
So by giving the motion its own dedicated IP stack you can direct that Wii motion traffic to a different
default gateway or different DNS server and we can do something similar for provisioning and for cold
migrations for example cloning snapshots.
We can send that traffic through its own dedicated TZP IP stack and we can create custom TZP IP stacks
as well.
Okay.
So in this lesson we learned about the following topics we learned about virtual switches and how we
can protect them from a network interface card failure by using either link state or beacon probing.
We learned about the different nic teaming methods and how they can be utilized to load balance across
our VM next or our physical adapters.
Learned about originating virtual port ID which essentially ties each virtual machine to one VM Nic
based on the virtual switch port.
Very similar to that was source Metcash which ties eeds virtual machine to a physical adapter based
on the mac address.
And the third method was a little bit different.
Right IP hash was based on not only the source IP but the destination IP as well.
And with that method we saw that virtual machines had the ability to utilize multiple physical adapters.
We talked about traffic shaping and how it can provide bandwidth control on a per virtual machine basis
and that traffic shaping is going to be configured on a port group.
And then finally we talked a little bit about the multiple TCAP IP stacks that are included with VSE
for sex so that we can use different default gateways for different types of traffic.